Modify rule S2323: LaYC format (#2700)
SonarSource/rspec: rules/S2323/cfamily/rule.adoc

== Why is this an issue?

When a line of code ends with the `\` (backslash) character, the newline character is deleted.
The compiler considers the next line a continuation of the current line, resulting in only one logical line of code.

This source code transformation, known as _line-splicing_, occurs during the second phase of C and {cpp} translation.

> _Line-splicing_ does not apply inside {cpp}11 raw string literal.
> Furthermore, it is often harmless and used to improve the readability of macros:

Reviewer: The information in these sentences is relevant, but I find the logic hard to follow. What about:
```suggestion
_Line-splicing_ is often harmless and is sometimes used to improve the readability of macros:
[source,c]
----
#define LOG_FAILURE(CONDITION, MESSAGE) 
  do {                                  \
    if (!(CONDITION)) {                 \
      log(MESSAGE);                     \
    }                                   \
  } while (0)
----

It is interesting to note that _Line-splicing_ does not apply inside {cpp}11 raw string literal.

```

Author: Makes sense, thanks for the suggestion. I'll amend the description.

  do {                                  \
    if (!(CONDITION)) {                 \
      log(MESSAGE);                     \
    }                                   \
  } while (0)
----

However, the effect of _line-splicing_ in single-line comments (`//`) can be surprising, leading to unintentional code removal and possibly undefined behavior.

In the following example, the `return` expression is considered part of the previous comment.
The function has undefined behavior because it exits without returning a value.

[source,cpp]
----
bool isSpecialCharacter(char c)
{
  // Noncompliant comment: it ends with a backslash.
  // Character considered special: [ ] \
  return 91 <= c && c <= 93;
}
----

Compilers may also delete whitespace characters between a backslash and the newline characters.
This practice is standard-compliant since {cpp}23.
In other words, trailing whitespace does not disable _line-splicing_.

== Resources

=== Documentation

* {cpp} reference - https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/language/translation_phases[Phases of translation]

=== External coding guidelines

* MISRA C:2012, 3.2 - Line-splicing shall not be used in // comments

=== Related rules

> * S1916 is a companion rule and detects trailing whitespace after `\`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* S1916 is a companion rule and detects trailing whitespace after `\`
```

Author: The full stop is required since it's a full sentence.
